# Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree Project 6
## This repository contains the final project of the Data Visualization Module.

## Summary
This analysis was created in order to help users understand which circumstances could have led the passengers to a higher survival rate.
The original dataset was broken into 7 grouped versions in order to create bar charts and scatter plots. These show the relation between gender, passenger class, age and survival.

## Design
### Titanic Data Set
#### Description:
*The sinking of the RMS Titanic is one of the most infamous shipwrecks in history.  On April 15, 1912, during her maiden voyage, the Titanic sank after colliding with an iceberg, killing 1502 out of 2224 passengers and crew. This sensational tragedy shocked the international community and led to better safety regulations for ships.*

*One of the reasons that the shipwreck led to such loss of life was that there were not enough lifeboats for the passengers and crew. Although there was some element of luck involved in surviving the sinking, some groups of people were more likely to survive than others, such as women, children, and the upper-class.*

*In this challenge, we ask you to complete the analysis of what sorts of people were likely to survive. In particular, we ask you to apply the tools of machine learning to predict which passengers survived the tragedy.*

The chosen design was to compare which features could have influenced the chances of surviving the crash. The following ones were considered:

* Gender
* Pclass
* Age

The summarized data files used for the charts were generated using a Python script (which is included in the *data_cleaning* folder).

The analysis first presents an overview on the total number of survivors.
This part is represented by the first chart, for this one, I chose to use an Histogram. This kind of chart is ideal to represent distributions of a categorical feature, such as Survived.
* Conclusion: The majority of the passengers did not survive.

The second part of the analysis shows us how the passengers were distributed in Gender, Pclass and Age.
This part of the analysis is represented by the second, third and fourth charts. They're all bar charts that represent clearly the distribution of each feature.
* Conclusion: The majority of the passengers were male, on the third class and between 20 to 40 years old.

The third part of the analyses used the three charts above but grouping the data between survivors and non-survivors.
For this part of the analysis, I wanted to check if there was any correlation between the previously analyzed features and the Survived one. In order to do so, I chose to use a scatter plot even though I'm comparing categorical features.
I've come to the conclusion that the scatter plot suits my idea for this chart, which is the conclusion bellow.
* Conclusion: The passengers who had a better chance of survivors were: Women, people on the 1st and 2nd class and kids.

#### Changes made after receiving the feedbacks:
There are two *chart-module* files in the *js* folder and two "index.html" files. 
The v1 was create before the feedbacks, the v2 is the updated version.

* For the first feedback which focused in the confusion generated by mixing the colors between the labels Gender and Survived. I've decided to change *dimplejs* default colors which also led to a better distinction of colors which is safer for color blind people.

* For the second feedback, I've decided to add commentaries after two relevant charts. My pourpose on these changes was to draw attention to the conclusions and help the viewer understand the idea that the charts are trying to explain.

* For the third and fourth feedback, a change in the visual design was made. At first, the charts were presented all in a single column. The user had to scroll all the way to the bottom to check all charts. I decided to use Bootstrap and create a second column which gave more information at once for the viewers, since there charts are not complex, the view was not "poluted", it actually became easier to understand.

## Received Feedbacks 
> __First Person Feedback:__ 
The charts are pretty self-explanatory. However, when I saw the the blue/"pink" bubbles in the last two charts that are facet by Survival, the first thing that came to my mind was they referred to Male/Female. Maybe different colors could be used with a better constrast in order to avoid this confusion.

> __Second Person Feedback:__ 
Although the charts are easy to understand, there should be some comments with the conclusions and findings for some charts. It's seems to me that it's very rare to find a chart that has no text, whether it's a brief description or a context of some sort. Just creating this visualization with lots of charts on a row doesn't seem to tell a story and makes hard for me to understand "what I'm looking for". Maybe there could be an introduction or some sort of description/conclusion to allow the viewer to firstly understand "what am I looking at".

> __Third Person Feedback:__
The charts are not complex and conclusions can be easily made. However, since there's no "contextualization", it's hard to understand the history behind the charts, what they mean. I have to keep scrolling up and down, analyzing one chart after another and going back to make my conclusion. I belive there could be lesser charts with a better focus on what they're trying to tell or they could be better arrenged in the screen in order to facilitate the viewers understanding. 

> __Fourth Person Feedback:__
My first feedback is that the charts are shown correctly when displayed on Google Chrome. There seems to be an issue with Firefox. I believe you should use Bootstrap in order to make better responsive visualizations and be "safe" despite the browser your viewer might be using. However, the visualizations are really good, I just think they need a better style, it's too simple and straightforward. Maybe add something more than just the charts or re-arrenge them in a better way.

## Resources
* [dimple](http://dimplejs.org/examples_index.html)
* [Udacity Module 2 Final Project](https://github.com/brunobrito89/udacity-ndda-module-2)
